---
layout: post
title: Obsidian Tour - August 2025
date: 2025-08-12 13:50:00 +0700
description: my obsidian theme and setup at August 2025
tags: nerdies english
categories: Journal-of-Sciences
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: true
toc:
  sidebar: right
---

It was a long time since I start using Obsidian again, only when I recognize that I can install Obsidian on my company laptop without admin rights :skull:. I decide to give myself a fresh start, let check out what we will install and take it cool :sunglasses:.

## Theme

My choice is **gruvbox**, always **gruvbox**, **gruvbox** is da bezt.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/gruvbox_obsidian.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
My gruvbox theme on my Arch 😆

There are a lot of great great choices about themes on Obsidian, but keep in mind to make it simple or you can be overwhelmed.

## Default Settings

First thing to do ever when you use Obsidian: `Files & Links > Automatically update internal links: ON`

Then check out the Daily Note and prepare the template. You don't need a fancy one, but focus on what will be meaningful to you. Like mine I need a reflection on what I should do. 

I avoid creating too much folders, as we can structure the notes through tags and links. Why? I believing creating too much folders will make friction to my creating notes as I have to choose which folder I should put the note on. Without folders and only tags, I can use shortcut to quickly create notes, and I can apply templates to have pre-fined tags and structure for each specialised note. I have 2 folders, one is for **Templates** and one is for **Daily** as I can automate Daily folder.

## Community Plugins

### Dataview

First one is **Dataview**, I use this to have an overview for my reading list. The useful resource is [Examples - Dataview](https://blacksmithgu.github.io/obsidian-dataview/resources/examples/).

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/dataviewjs_obsidian.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
I use Dataview to tracking my books like this.

### Spaced Repetition

Second one is **Spaced Repetition**. This plugin makes Obsidian more lively and more interactive. With this plugin, you can review knowledge easier without using a seperated flashcard app like Anki or Quizlet.

Some recommended settings by me:

- **Cloze**: Use `Convert ==highlights== to clozes` setting. Bold settings can be messy because sometimes you don't intently want the bold to be cloze. Using curly brackets is the default Cloze setting on Anki. 
- **Inline flashcard**: I use `;` instead of `:` cause sometimes you don't mean to make flashcard when using `:`. `;` is more rarely used and you have clearly intention when using it making flashcards.
- **Multiline flashcard**: Because of multiline flashcard's format, when `?` must lies in a seperate line. I have no problem using it.

I don't use **Notes** feature, I find it is not effective and passive.

### Tag Wrangler

Tags is a powerful tool of Obsidian, and **Tag Wrangler** is the one saves your tags life. It will help your life easier to modify your tags in bulk or enhance searching with tags.

### Chronology

Final one is **Chronology**, if you search "Calendar" on Obsidian Community Plugin page, it won't be so impressive. But it's my always first choice for Calendar on Obsidian. I love its heatmap, very aesthetic :sparkles: And I can easily search or trace back the notes I created or modified that day.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/chronology_obsidian.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
Chronology in my Obsidian.

---

Will update when I have some dramatic change!
