---
layout: post
title: I use Arch, btw
date: 2025-03-05 02:45:00 +0700
description: a brief story of my try on archlinux
tags: cse english
categories: Linh-the-Engineer
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: true
toc:
  sidebar: right
---

At 2am, you know, holy hour of random ideas. I feel frustrated that I am using **Pop!_OS 22.04**. It's already 2025, we should have 24.04 version. Took me a while to do the research, and I heard that the dev team is migrating Pop!_OS to COSMOS. A uncerntain feeling captured my mind.

> "What if they just drop out half way?"

## What are my options?

My mind wants to change to a new OS. What about Ubuntu? But it's too basic and Gnome has too much flaws, the idea of installing extensions and stuffs make me exhausted.

Fedora? Kali Linux? Debian? Too many distros to choose, life is too short.

I want a fun and challenging OS to play with. And yes, I choose **Arch**.

Finally becoming an Arch user seems cool tbh.

## Embrace the adventure

It wasn't easy to install arch. I tried to follow the tutorial from chatGPT but it sucks when come to partitioning part.

I had to install arch twice to be able to boot in. The dual boot story made me stuck for a while.

When I remove the media, boot into arch. **Boom**. It's a black screen, no GUI no internet. Yup, I didn't believe that I have to install internet service manually.

Then I had to insert the USB third time to install internet and GUI. I choose KDE as it seems better than GNOME. (Or maybe the grass is greener on the other side).

## My Arch Setup

I use **Sweet Theme and Candy icons** of this chad [EliverLara](https://github.com/EliverLara)

My main coding editor: **nvim with AstroNvim+Konsole**. I don't reuse my nvim setup at Pop!_OS. I tried to switch to Nvchad but I am not familiar with its workflow. Kitty terminal's NerdFont problem made me feel tired.

Terminal emulator: **Alacritty**. I love its opacity :wink:

My note-taking and research setup: **Zotero+Obsidian**. I tried to use Mendeley but it's too slow to me. And maybe I will write a tutorial another day to show my workflow of Zotero+Obsidian.

Mail Client: **Thunderbird**. Can't find better solution.

Browser: **Firefox**. But with the drama recently about its privacy. I am considering other options.

